So now that we've
talked about the use
of the supplyAsync
factory method,
let's talk about several
completion stage methods
that are applied in the
completable futures version
of the ImageStreamGang example.
We're going to start first
by talking about the download
DownloadImageAsync method.
And as we'll see,
this is the method
that's going to be
used as a behavior
to the map
intermediate operation,
and it's going to
take as input, as we
will see, the completable
future to an optional URL.
And then it'll decide what to
do based on whether there's
actually a value in there
or not, in other words,
whether it's been cached or not.
Just to reiterate,
we only want to try
to download non-cached images.
So the DownloadImageAsync
method will asynchronously
download a non-cached image
and store it in memory.
Later behaviors will simply
ignore empty Optional images.
So if we get an
empty Optional URL
as the input to this
particular method,
it will simply create
an empty Optional image,
and that'll get
passed on the stream,
and then the next phase
will just ignore that.
This will return a stream
of CompletableFutures
to Optional images which will
have a value if the image is
in the process of
being downloaded,
or it will simply be empty
if it's already cached.
Again, we need this because
asynchronous processing
doesn't play well with the
filter intermediate operations.
We can't filter these things
out without turning stuff
into synchronous calls, which we
don't want to do in this case.
Here is the DownloadImageAsync
method implementation.
So you can see, it takes
a CompletableFuture
to an Optional URL, and we
call this thing urlFuture.
And this future
will be triggered
when we know whether or not
the image has been cached.
So when the urlFuture
completes, we
will initiate an
asynchronous download.
That's what the comment means.
So let's assume
that the future has
been triggered, indicating that
we know whether something's
cached or not.
We don't know if
it's cached or not
yet, we just know that we know
that it's been cached or not.
In that case, we call the
thenApplyAsync completion stage
method and we pass
it in an action,
and we'll talk about the
action in the second.
That action, of course, won't
be executed immediately but only
after the urlFuture completes.
When the urlFuture
completes, we go ahead
and we say, urlOptional,
because that's
what we'll have at that point.
We'll have an optional
object that points
to a URL, that contains a URL.
We say, urlOptional.map.
And .map a very interesting
method on Optional that takes
the behavior that's
passed to it,
and if the Optional is empty,
does nothing and returns
an empty Optional.
If the Optional
has a value, it'll
run behavior that's
passed to it.
So in this case, if we
need to download the image,
then the map call will
invoke the blocking download
parameter that's passed to
it, that method of reference,
and will return back a
CompletableFuture-- or sorry,
it'll return back an Optional
that describes what happened.
The thenApplyAsync method
will run blocking download
in a background thread in the
pool if urlOpt is not empty.
So tying look at this
more holistically,
if we ended up needing
to download something,
it'll be downloaded, and it'll
be downloaded in a background
thread in the fork-join pool.
The particular pool is set
by the getExecutor method,
as I showed you before.
That is simply a
helper method that
returns the common fork-join
pool reference, and away we go.
But by using it this way,
it's trivial to change
to a different pool
if we so desire.
Now, the other thing we'll
notice as we talk about this
is that the
blockingDownload method
will use the managed
blocker interface
that we've talked about before.
So here is the
blockingDownload method.
This is the one that's
being called here.
And blockingDownload
takes a URL,
and downloads it and
converts it into an image.
So that's the overall
behavior that it's doing,
and that's that implementation
for the blocking download
method resides in the
ImageStreamGang.java file.
Under the hood, blockingDownload
uses the blocking task call
in managedBlock method, and
that wraps the managedBlocker
interface as we showed before
when we were discussing
the common fork-join pool.
And that, as you may
recall, will auto
expand the number of threads
in the common fork-join pool's
worker thread pool to handle
the blocking image download.
So we'll basically replenish
the threads if things block.
In particular, lambda
supplier that we pass in here
will be a call to the
download image method.
Sorry for all the different
levels of interaction,
but they all play a role
here one way or another.
Just to reiterate
that, by the way,
DownloadImageAsync arranges
to call blockingDownload
if we need to download
an image, in other words,
if it wasn't already cached.
That will run asynchronously
in a pool thread.
BlockingDownload, in turn,
uses the the managedBlocker
interface in order to finally
call the download image
function, and that's
something that actually
arranges to do real work.
Everything else is just
setting it everything
up with the threading
and optionals and so on.
DownloadImage, as
you can see here,
is going to download the content
of the URL and return an image.
I'm not going to show you
the download content call.
You can go look at it.
It's in the code.
It basically just opens up
a connection to the server
and downloads the content
and turns it into an image.
So that's what actually
does the real work.
But that can do it in
a background thread,
and that'll help to
expand the thread
pool, the common
fork-join pool as needed.
The return value from
download image a sync
is a CompletableFuture
to an optional image
that will complete when the
image finishes downloading.
So when the image is
finally downloaded,
that image will be completed,
and the CompletableFuture
will be triggered, and then
the next stage can take place
in the pipeline of the stream.